# Data-Structures-and-Algorithm-in-Python
In daily life, we always go with that person who can complete the task in a short amount of time with efficiency and using fewer resources. The same things happen with Coding.Knowledge of data structures like Hash Tables, Trees, Tries, Graphs, and various algorithms goes a long way in solving these problems efficiently.Data Structures are a crucial part of several computer algorithms as they allow programmers to do data management efficiently. A wise selection of data structures can improve the performance of a computer program or algorithm in a more useful way. 1. Handling complexity: Increase in complexities in computer algorithms, the volume of data usage is rising; this can affect the execution of the application and can create remarkable areas of concern like processing speed, data search, and multiple requests. To counter these data structures are used.   2. Systematic memory use: Systematic application of data structure memory usage can be optimized, e.g., we can use linked list vs. arrays when we are not particular about the data size. When there is no longer use of memory, it can be cleared.   3. Ability to reuse: Once we have executed a particular data structure, we can reuse it in any distinct position. Implementation of data structures can be assembled into libraries that can be utilized by various clients.   4. Abstraction:  Data structure acts as the foundation of abstract data types; the data structure describes the physical form of Abstract Data Type. In ADT, the set of operations is supposed to be understood, and the data structure provides physicality to them.   Data structures are the integral constituent of any programming language or complex computations. Mostly, structured data structures are crucial to designing efficient algorithms. 
